DX Tutorials - On-Chain Ticketing System for Live Concerts (#5316)
iotaledger/iota: docs/content/developer/getting-started/live-concert.mdx

    Contract->>Contract: Check the user have enough iota coins
    Contract->>Blockchain: Update the SoldTicket
    Contract->>Owner: Transfer the price of the nft to the creator 
    Contract ->>User: TicketNFT

    User->>Contract: resale(TicketNFT,resale_price)
    Contract->>Blockchain: InitiateResale

    User->>Contract: buy_resale_ticket(coin,InitiateResale)
    Contract->>User: transfer nft price to the previous owner.
    Contract->>User: TicketNFT
    Contract->>Blockchain: Delete the InitiateResale object

    Owner->>Contract: change_price(Creator,category,updated_price,Category)
    Contract->>Contract: Check if the sender is creator of package
    Contract->>Contract: Validate the category
    Contract->>Contract: Update the price of the category
```

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >=v20.18.0
- [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) >=10.8.2
- [iota](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/releases) >=0.7.3 

## Create a Move Package

Run the following command to [create a Move package](/developer/getting-started/create-a-package), and move into its directory:

```bash
iota move new live_concert && cd live_concert
```

## Package Overview

> 

Reviewer: Could you add a section describing the used structs and constants?

Author: sure.

- This function allows the creator to change the price of a category, by updating the `Category` object.

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/3e902862a27886231a1721ab3609100326d284ad/package/sources/live_concert.move#L135-L148
```

:::note Helper Functions
	There are some helper functions in the package that are used by the above functions.
:::

### Write Unit Tests

After creating the module, you should write the tests for all the functions. Copy the below code to the `live_concert_tests.move` file:

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/3e902862a27886231a1721ab3609100326d284ad/package/tests/live_concert_tests.move
```

### Publish the Package

[Publish](./publish.mdx) the package to the IOTA Testnet using the following command:

```bash 
iota client publish
```

## Frontend dApp

Next, let's create the user interface for the live concert ticketing system. To build the frontend dApp, we will use the [IOTA dApp kit](../../../ts-sdk/dapp-kit/).

### Set Up

Run the following command to set up the initial app:

```bash

> npm create @iota/create-dapp

Reviewer: npm error code E404
npm error 404 Not Found - GET https://registry.npmjs.org/@iota%2fcreate-create-dapp - Not found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm create @iota/dapp
```

```

### Set Up Network Configuration

Add the following variables in the [`networkConfig.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/networkConfig.ts) file:

```javascript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/3e902862a27886231a1721ab3609100326d284ad/frontend/src/networkConfig.ts
```

> To get the address for the above variables, see the transaction digest of your package publication or see the public transaction on[ IOTA Testnet Explorer](https://explorer.rebased.iota.org/?network=testnet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the address for the above variables, see the transaction digest of your package publication or see the public transaction on the [IOTA Testnet Explorer](https://explorer.rebased.iota.org/?network=testnet).
```

> 

Reviewer: Please mention that the users need to download the auxiliairy files you don't explain for the dapp to run.

Author: I've added the required dependency to create and run dapp in the Prerequisites section; anything else I need to add in it?

---
description: On chain live concerts ticketing system
tags:
 - explanation
 - tutorial
 - move-sc
---

# Live Concerts Ticketing System

> In this tutorial, we will create an on chain live concerts ticketing system on which user can buy ticket for the concert. There will be multiple categories of tickets and a every single ticket will be an nft and can be different price also after being same category. The admin can update the price of tickets categories wise. A user can also resale the ticket specifying the price of the ticket. The tutorial will cover the move package and the frontend dApp part. We will walk you through step by step process of creating move package and the frontend dApp using iota dApp kit. By the end, you'll have a fully functional dApp that allows users to buy/resale tickets effortlessly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will create an on-chain live concert ticketing system on which users can buy tickets for the concert. There will be multiple categories of tickets, and every single ticket will be an NFT and can have different prices after being in the same category. The admin can update the price of tickets in categories. A user can also resell the ticket by specifying the cost of the ticket. The tutorial will cover the move package and the frontend dApp part. We will walk you through the step-by-step process of creating a Move package and the frontend dApp using the IOTA dApp kit. By the end, you'll have a fully functional dApp that allows users to buy/resale tickets effortlessly.
```

    User->>Contract: buy_ticket(CoinToTransfer,Creator,category,Category,TotalTicket,SoldTicket)
    Contract->>Contract: Check the category is valid
    Contract->>Contract: Check the user have enough iota coins
    Contract->>Blockchain: Update the SoldTicket
    Contract->>Owner: Transfer the price of the nft to the creator 
    Contract ->>User: TicketNFT

    User->>Contract: resale(TicketNFT,resale_price)
    Contract->>Blockchain: InitiateResale

    User->>Contract: buy_resale_ticket(coin,InitiateResale)
    Contract->>User: transfer nft price to the previous owner.
    Contract->>User: TicketNFT
    Contract->>Blockchain: Delete the InitiateResale object

    Owner->>Contract: change_price(Creator,category,updated_price,Category)
    Contract->>Contract: Check if the sender is creator of package
    Contract->>Contract: Validate the category
    Contract->>Contract: Update the price of the category
```

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >=v20.18.0
- [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) >=10.8.2
- [iota](https://github.com/iotaledger/iota/releases) >=0.7.3 

## Create a Move Package

> Run the following command to [create a Move package](/developer/getting-started/create-a-package):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to [create a Move package](/developer/getting-started/create-a-package), and move into its directory:
```

```bash
iota move new live_concert && cd live_concert
```

## Package Overview

### [`init`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L66-L96)

In Move, the [`init`](../iota-101/move-overview/init) function only runs once at package publication.
The `init` function will create four [`shared_object`](../iota-101/objects/object-ownership/shared.mdx) type objects: 

> - [`Creator`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L18-L21) will use to verify the creator of the package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Creator`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L18-L21) will be used to verify the creator of the package.
```

> - [`Creator`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L18-L21) will use to verify the creator of the package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Creator`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L18-L21) will be used to verify the creator of the package.
```

- [`TotalTicket`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L23-L29) will store the total number of seats of concerts.

> - [`SoldTicket`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L30-L36) will store the total number of seats sold till date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`SoldTicket`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L30-L36) will store the total number of seats sold to date.
```

> - [`Category`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L45-L48) will store all types of seats (silver,gold and platinium)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Category`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L45-L48) will store all types of seats (silver, gold and platinum).

```

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L66-L96
```

### [`buy_ticket`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L99-L133)

> - This function allows the purchase of tickets.
> - Anyone can buy any tickets.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This function allows anyone to purchase tickets.
```

> - This function will set a limit on resaling the ticket nft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This function will set a limit on reselling the ticket NFT.
```

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L99-L133
```

### [`resale`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L150-L164)

> - This function allows user to resale their tickets.
> - User can also set the price at which they wants to resale the ticket.
> - The `resale` function then creates an [`shared_object`](../iota-101/objects/object-ownership/shared.mdx) type objects `InitiateResale` in which the nft and its resaling price will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This function allows users to resell their tickets.
- Users can also set the price at which they want to resell the ticket.
- The `resale` function then creates a [`shared_object`](../iota-101/objects/object-ownership/shared.mdx) type objects `InitiateResale` in which the NFT and its resell price will be stored.
```

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L150-L164
```

### [`buy_resale_ticket`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L167-L187)

> - This function will to buy the tickets which are on resale.
> - User will pass the address of `InitiateResale` object address which store the nft user wants to buy.
> - The function then unwrap the nft from the shared object and transfer it to the sender.
> - The `InitiateResale` object will be deleted and the price of resaling the nft will transfer to its previous owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This function allows users to buy the tickets that are on resale.
- Users will pass the address of the `InitiateResale` object that will store the NFT users want to buy.
- The function then unwraps the NFT from the shared object and transfers it to the sender.
- The `InitiateResale` object will be deleted, and the price of reselling the NFT will be transferred to its previous owner.
```

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L167-L187
```

### [`change_price`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L135-L148)

> - Only the creator of the package can call this function.

Reviewer: why? Please add sentence with a link :)

Author: The `change_price` function is restricted to the creator of the package because only the creator should have the authority to update ticket prices. Allowing anyone else to modify prices could lead to unauthorized changes and potential misuse.  

For reference, the creator's role is enforced in the `Creator` object, which is stored as a shared object in the package:  
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L18-L21

Reviewer: Btw, wouldn't this be a good place to use the capabilities pattern? As in an AdminCap for example

Author: We are transferring the iota coins to the creator, which we are getting when buying tickets from the user.

> - This function allow to change the price of a category.
> - This will update the `Category` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This function allows the creator to change the price of a category, by updating the `Category` object.
```

> - This function allow to change the price of a category.
> - This will update the `Category` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This function allows the creator to change the price of a category by updating the `Category` object.
```

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/sources/live_concert.move#L135-L148
```

> ::: Note
> There are some helper function also in the package which are used inside the above functions.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note Helper Functions
There are some helper functions in the package that are used by the above functions.
:::
```

> See the full example of the contract on [github](https://github.com/iota-community/independent-ticketing-system/blob/main/independent_ticketing_system/sources/independent_ticketing_system.move) .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

No need for this, the imported examples have a link.

> ### Write Unit Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Write Unit Tests
```

> After creating the module write the test for all the functions. Move the below code to the `live_concert_tests.move` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the module, you should write the tests for all the functions. Copy the below code to the `live_concert_tests.move` file:
```

> After creating the module write the test for all the functions. Move the below code to the `live_concert_tests.move` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the module, you should write the tests for all the functions. Copy the below code to the `live_concert_tests.move` file:
```

```move reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/package/tests/live_concert_tests.move
```

### Publish the Package

[Publish](./publish.mdx) the package to the IOTA Testnet using the following command:

```bash 
iota client publish
```

## Frontend dApp

> Now let's create the ui part of the live concert ticketing system. To build the its frontend dApp we will use like always the [IOTA dApp kit](../../../ts-sdk/dapp-kit/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, let's create the user interface for the live concert ticketing system. To build the frontend dApp, we will use the [IOTA dApp kit](../../../ts-sdk/dapp-kit/).
```

> ### Setup 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set Up  
```

> Run the following command to setup the initial app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to set up the initial app:
```

```bash
npm create @iota/create-dapp
```

### Set Up Network Configuration

Add the following variables in the [`networkConfig.ts`](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/networkConfig.ts) file:

```javascript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/frontend/src/networkConfig.ts
```

> To get the address for the above variables see the transaction digest of your package publication or see the public transaction on iota testnet explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the address for the above variables, see the transaction digest of your package publication or see the public transaction on IOTA Testnet Explorer.
```
Add a link to the explorer please.

   * [main.tsx](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/main.tsx)

### [Form.tsx](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/components/Form.tsx)

The `Form.tsx` component is an input form used to collect inputs for all operations. It is a versatile component utilized everywhere.

```javascript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/frontend/src/components/Form.tsx
```

### [Home.tsx](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/components/Home.tsx)

The `Home.tsx` component displays buttons for all operations and a list of owned objects associated with the currently connected account.

```javascript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/frontend/src/components/Home.tsx
```

### [buyResaleTicket.ts](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/utils/buyResaleTicket.ts)

> In this file we will call the `buy_resale_ticket` function of the package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, we will call the `buy_resale_ticket` function of the package:
```

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/frontend/src/utils/buyResaleTicket.ts
```

### [buyTicket.ts](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/utils/buyTicket.ts)

> In this file we will call the `buy_ticket` function of the package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, we will call the `buy_ticket` function of the package:
```

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/frontend/src/utils/buyTicket.ts
```

### [changePrice.ts](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/utils/changePrice.ts)

> In this file we will call the `change_price` function of the package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, we will call the `change_price` function of the package:
```

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/frontend/src/utils/changePrice.ts
```

### [resale.ts](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/utils/resale.ts)

> In this file we will call the `resale` function of the package:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this file, we will call the `resale` function of the package:
```

Out of curiosity, why not create one component to handle all the calls?

Author: Yes, absolutely, good idea

```typescript reference
https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/847b2f98e5de6523072d7058b89ebc96105589aa/frontend/src/utils/resale.ts
```

### [submitForm.ts](https://github.com/iota-community/on-chain-live-concerts-ticketing-system/blob/main/frontend/src/utils/submitForm.ts)

> This file contains a function while calls function for specific operation like buy or resale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains a function that calls functions for specific operations like buy or resale.
```
